1. To what does a relative path refer?
Ans:-
A relative path referes to the location of a current working file or directory in relation to the current directoy.it is a path that is expressed to the relative 
of current working directory or location of referred file or directory

2. What does an absolute path start with your operating system?
Ans:-
The format of path may depends in oprating system but in general an absolute path starts with the root directory of file system on the oprating system.
on window system an ususl path starts from drive letterfollowed by colon and bcakslash for exapmle:-\
C:\\program file\myfolder\study material

3. What do the functions os.getcwd() and os.chdir() do?
Ans:-
os.getcwd()- Will give your the current path of working directtry of the python scritp.
os.chdir() will take path as input and can change the current working directory of paython script.]
Togather both function will given you acccess to nevigate the working directory to maximize the use and benifits.

4. What are the . and .. folders?
Ans:-
"." refers to the current working directory . It is often use in path to represent the current working directory.
".." while this use to refer the parent working directory of the current directory.it is often used to represent to refer to directory of one level up.


5. In C:\bacon\eggs\spam.txt, which part is the dir name, and which part is the base name?
Ans:-
In above link (C:\bacon\eggs\spam.txt) - spam.txt is the name of working directory.

6. What are the three “mode” arguments that can be passed to the open() function?
Ans:-
In python open() function used to open a file and returns the contain and code that can be used to read.
here are three mode open a file .- 
-r - This function is used to read the file and show that contain and data of file.
-w - This function is used to write and commit the changes in any file or directory.
-a This mode is basically used to append a data in file or directory.


7. What happens if an existing file is opened in write mode?
Ans:-
When you open a file in -w mode , it means this file's all contains are erased and cleared and ready to rewrite .
that's why it is importtant to open a file carefully in desired mode to avoid the hustle and data curreption.

8. How do you tell the difference between read() and readlines()?
Ans:-
In python both are used to read the data from a file or object but they behave differently.
read() this reads file and returns the result as a string.
readlines()  this reads a entire contents of the drectory and file and returns in the list of strings.

9. What data structure does a shelf value resemble?
Ans:-
In Python, a shelf is a persistent, dictionary-like object that stores key-value pairs as pickled values on disk. A shelf value resembles a 
dictionary in the way it stores key-value pairs, but it is not a true dictionary. Instead, it is a built-in module in Python, which provides a simple way 
to store and retrieve objects from disk using key-value pairs.
Overall, a shelf value in Python can be thought of as a persistent, disk-based dictionary that stores its data in a file on disk.
